# A Letter to The Clean Coders Staff

Hi guys, it has now been a few months since I last interned at the clean coders, and I have a few words I'd like to say.

#### Where to Start

I suppose the best way to start this is to say that I am sorry for taking everyone's time and work for granted. I was
working along fellow apprentices who were pouring a lot of work hours into Clean Coders, and I acted like it was something
that I could just breeze through, completing all of my work on the day or two before I had to present it to my mentors.
In reality, I now realize that I'm not some elite programmer who is able to take such a thing for granted. It took getting
let go from this internship for me to realize how much of an ego I had around programming, and work in general, to incite
the want for me to work on myself and be more successful.

#### What I've been doing

In the past few months since I was let go, I've kind of just had my head down at my other job, a restaurant job where
I run food and bus tables. I have realized since being let go from Clean Coders that I was treating my other job in a
similar fashion. I was constantly showing up late, being lacking in work ethic, and just getting by on the bare minimum.
Since then, I have been working on myself a lot. I now get to work a few minutes early every day to ensure I am not late,
I do all of my work to the best of my ability, never slacking off or being distracted. I believe now that I can do similar
things at Clean Coders, and be somebody that you all truly want to work with, instead of somebody that you tolerate who seems to not really care.

#### What will change

Instead of this section being a paragraph, I'm just going to lay this out in a list for reasons I will discuss later in
this blog post.

1. Instead of showing up to standup 5 minutes after waking up, I will treat it as an important meeting, which is what it is.
2. Instead of being messy looking in my meetings, I will look as if I am working at a company, and taking my appearance seriously
3. Instead of waiting to do my work, I will work on things throughout the week, and properly communicate with my fellow workers / mentors to ensure it gets done in a timely manner.

#### Final Request

I think that all of this is just the bare minimum, and will lead to a more successful internship for me, but I realize
that just making promises about simple things I will change isn't something you can just sign off on, so I have another thing that I want to say.

Programming is frankly something I am very passionate about. It took me getting let go to remember the reason I program in the first place.
I now remember all the hackathons I went to in middle and high school, and all the robotics meetings I attended where I went to program, problem solve, and innovate. 
I'm requesting your time so that I can grow my passion, and learn new things. I don't want this internship back so that I can
go to work and get paid (though that is a very nice benefit) I want to do this internship because it allows me to program,
and have new challenges each week that excite me, and make me think. If I have never seemed to be passionate about programming to you all,
then I personally don't think I deserve another chance at this internship. However, if I have shown signs that I am passionate about this,
then I am humbly asking you all to give me your time and energy to help me fuel my passion at Clean Coders.