## 08-19-2024
Today I spent much of the day getting set up for various things. Installing IntelliJ and the Clojure Koans git repo. 
Additionally, I watched 2 of the Clean Coders fundamental videos. The first one was about how to name different elements 
of your code while programming in order to maximize readability. This allows for you, and future programmers who look at your code, 
to have a much easier time understanding what they're looking at. For example, the name "SetXCoordinateOfObject" is a lot more 
descriptive than "ObjX". The video also tells us to avoid abbreviations, as it can lead to confusion in the future when the code is 
being read. The second video I watched was on Functions. It explains that, essentially, you should try to create as many functions 
as possible, and each function should only do one thing. This makes the code way more readable, as you don't have to sift through 
a bunch of coding jargon in order to understand what is happening. For example:
```
generatePosition();
setCoordinateOfObject();
if(ObjectPositionOccupied()) doThingOne();
else doThingTwo();
```
is a lot easier to read than
```
Position position = new Position(X,Y);
Object.position = position();
if(Object.position.occupied == true) {
    doThingOne();
} else {
    doThingTwo();
}
```
The video's also explain that we need to be mindful of the scope of the thing we are naming, 
essentially how much stuff it's involved in. If a function has a low scope it should be a long name, so you can explain 
what specifically it does. However, if a class has a short scope it should have a short name, since classes usually get 
more complex the larger the scope.

Overall, I think my first day went well, however I think I could've gotten a lot more done, hopefully tomorrow I will be 
able to report back a much higher amount of progress.