## 09-10-2024 | Prime Numbers

 Today I figured I'd do something a little bit different for my blog. I wanted to go over prime numbers in clojure, and
 my journey of understanding them. I recently had to do a few euler problems pertaining to prime numbers, and I came to
 understand why it's a big focus of the euler problems. Left in its most basic form, prime numbers are incredibly slow
 to calculate in large quantities. We're going to go over optimizing the seemingly simple problem of checking if a number
is prime.

#### Let's start with this basic example:

```
is n prime?
    if n <= 1, false
    if n = 2, true
    otherwise:
        Go through every number from 2 to (n-1).
        If NONE of these numbers is a factor of n, n is prime
        otherwise:
            n is prime
```

This might seem good enough, but you have to think about what is happening. Every time you want to see if a number is prime,
you have to iterate through n-2 numbers. This is fine in small quantities, however, if you want to, for example, find every
prime number below 2 million, you are iterating through 1,999,999,000,000 numbers.

#### How can we fix this?

One of the easiest things we can do is simply remove certain factors from the list we generate. For example, the first
prime number is 2, so we only have to generate odd numbers after that.
```
is n prime?
    if n <= 1, false
    if n = 2, true
    otherwise:
        Start with 2, then go through every odd number from 3 to (n-1).
        If NONE of these numbers is a factor of n, n is prime
        otherwise:
            n is prime
```
This has already cut the number of checks we have to perform for our example nearly in half, down to 1,000,000,000,000.
While this is quite a significant improvement, we can do something else to improve efficiency by a lot more. If we only check
the numbers that are less than the square root of n, we cut down the numbers quite a bit. We can do this because every factor
has a counterpart. For example, the factors of 6 are 1, 2, 3, and 6. If we've already checked if 2 is a factor of 6, then we
know about 3 being a factor of 6. The square root of 6 is about 2.44, which is conveniently in between 2 and 3. However,
to avoid annoying decimals, we will just filter out the numbers that are higher than the square root of n.
```
is n prime?
    if n <= 1, false
    if n = 2, true
    otherwise:
        Start with 2, then go through every odd integer from 3 onwards.
        Generate these integer while the square of this number is less than or equal to n.
        If NONE of these integer is a factor of n, n is prime
        otherwise:
            n is prime
```
This reduces the amount of factors we check to 942,809,242, which is a 99.9% reduction from the previous number.

#### What's left?

Of course, there are ways to optimize this algorithm even more. A very commonly used one is known as the Sieve of Eratosthenes.
With the sieve, you essentially start with a list of numbers starting at 2, going all the way to the number you want to generate primes up to.
For example, if n is 10, the sieve will generate (2, 3, 5, 7). It does this by taking the first prime, and then removing
all of its factors from the list. After this, the code moves on to the next prime number and removes all of the numbers that
have it as a factor. This continues until you have your list. With the previous example, this is how the sieve would work.
```
Starting: (2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10)
2 is at the front of the list, which means its prime.
Remove products of 2: (2, 3, 5, 7, 9)
3 is the next number after 2, which means its prime.
Remove products of 3: (2,3,5,7)
5 is the next number after 3, which means its prime.
Rest of list is prime.
```
This algorithm is incredibly efficient, as it means you don't have to iterate through nearly as many numbers.

#### Conclusion

There's obviously many ways to generate and check for prime numbers, and I'm sure this only scratches the surface of what's out there.
Even so, it was incredibly interesting to read about these algorithms, and create a few myself.