## 09-11-2024 | Single Responsibility Principle

If you are unfamiliar with the SOLID principles, you might be questioning what in the world I am talking about.
I do however think that the name speaks for itself. The single responsibility principle is essentially just that something
should only have one responsibility. In terms of code, "something" is a class, module, or function, and a responsibility
is something that requires change in the module. For example, if you work in an ice cream parlor, the ice cream machine is
responsible for making the ice cream, and nothing else.

#### Why?

Why do we want to code with this principle in mind? Because if our module has more than one responsibility, it can lead to
what's known as fragility (the inverse of smaller code change to larger code breaking). As an example, if we take our
ice cream machine from earlier, and make it also apply toppings, this might work for something like cherries or sprinkles.
But, as soon as we add hot fudge, we have to deal with the heat differences between the two inside the machine, and figure
out a way to handle it.

#### How?

We can solve this in a variety of ways. One way is to use interface segregation in order to keep responsibilities separate.
For example, instead of just having an "ice cream and topping machine", if we separate them out into individual components,
each machine can deal with their temperature individually, and not have to worry about each other.

Another way that we can deal with this is through dependency inversion. With this, we're basically taking what the ice cream interface
needs, and putting it into two separate objects that the interface relies on. For this example, it would be a machine class, and an ice cream class,
which could contain data like the temperature the machine needs to be at, and what material it's supplying.

#### Facade Pattern

The facade pattern is essentially a form of inverse to the Single Responsibility principle. This however allows for a more simple
user interface. In our ice cream example, it is a lot easier to use the same machine and press 2 buttons at the same time that dispenses
different toppings.

#### A Balancing Act

Overall, this principle is basically a large balancing act. We as the programmer have to decide what to combine and what to separate,
in order to balance the development time between the usability. If the most optimized development time means that it takes a user 10 times
longer to make an ice cream cone, it is much better to have 1.2x the dev time in order to cut down on the time it takes to create
that ice cream cone at 2 times the smallest possible rate.