## 09-17-2024.md | Open Close Principle

The open close principle is the second letter in SOLID. This principle revolves around making sure that it is easy to change
the behavior of your code, without needing to change the code itself. You might be asking yourself how this works, well, OPEN CLOSE
can be extended out to OPEN for extension but CLOSED for modification. This means that if a client asks for a new feature, you don't
have to look around in all of your old code in order to implement this new feature.

#### What not to do

My ice cream shop has been doing very well for itself. I'm getting lots of customers, and I'm making lots of money. I've decided
to expand my business. Little did you know, I have only been selling one flavor of ice cream this entire time. Vanilla. But now I
would like to expand to new horizons, the most popular flavors that have been requested are chocolate and strawberry. There is
just one problem with this, my ice cream machine is only designed to handle one flavor of ice cream. 

There are a few ways I can go about fixing this.
One, is to change my machine to handle specifically 3 flavors of ice cream.... but this will lead to even more problems in the future when
I try to add more flavors, and inevitably damage part of the machine, and now my ice cream shop is out of business until the machine
can be fixed.

#### The alternative

The alternative, is that when I go into my ice cream machine to add more flavors, I instead rework it so that the ice cream machine
acts as a way for me to select a flavor, and output that flavor. This will be done by having a machine in the back that is connected
to all the ice cream tanks of different flavors, takes the selection, and requests the flavor to be added. Now, it doesn't matter
how many flavors I add to the machine, all I need to do is add more tanks and connect them to the interface, which is far simpler
than meddling with the internal components of my ice cream machine again.

#### Not a perfect solution

You might be thinking, what happens if I want to mix flavors internally in the machine? Well unfortunately, I hadn't thought of that
when I went into the machine originally, and now I need to modify it again. However, if I modify it this time so that any sort of flavor
mixing can be easily changed, I will never have to worry about messing with my main machine for more flavor mixing features. This will continue
until I inevitably come across a new feature request that I hadn't thought of, and that feature needs to be routed through the main
machine.

#### A balancing act

As with most of these SOLID articles, we have to bring up engineering, and the balancing act of it all. Engineering is never about
perfect solutions, but getting as close as we can to those solutions. For the open close principle, a good way of implementing it is
having it so that as soon as the first change to a module is requested, that module is closed off from the main area, allowing it to be
more easily changed in the future.