## 09-12-2024 | Grids

Now, you might be wondering why I'm dedicating an entire blog post to something seemingly so simple. I mean, isn't
a grid just a data set tied to coordinates? It's quite simple to get any data point you need, just ask the grid for
the information at the coordinate. Well, one of the most common things you might need to do with a grid is check what is
in adjacent grid spaces. This is easy enough for rows and columns, just change the x or y value by one.

#### Columns

Columns are easy enough to generate, if I have a grid and I know what the length of each row is, I can easily extrapolate
a column from it using clojure, as shown below.
```clojure
(defn grid [[1 2 3]
 [4 5 6]
 [7 8 9]])

This is a threaded form where I'm showing what each step does.
(->>
  (flatten grid) -> [1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9]
  (take-nth 3) -> [1 4 7])
```
As you can see, when I take-nth with the length of the grid, it gives me the first column. I can easily get the nth column
by removing n-1 numbers from the start of the flattened grid.

#### But what about diagonals

I hate diagonals. They really do suck. Iterating through a grid and getting the sets of diagonals took me a bit of head bashing
to figure out. However, I came up with a neat little trick in order to do so. Say I have a 3x3 grid again, if I take the bottom left
number, that is my first diagonal. Then, if I remove that number, I'll have a new number in the bottom left. If I take that new number,
and the one in the row above it, I'll have my second diagonal. I can repeat the process increasing the number of rows I take from, and 
eventually I will have a list of a bit over half of the diagonals. Getting the other half is simple enough, I just mirror the list
horizontally and vertically, repeat the process, and then undo the mirroring. The only problem with this is that I have the same diagonal twice.
I solved this by simply making sure the duplicate generates in the same position in the list every time, and removing it. A visual of this
process is shown below
```
First Set:
1 2 3      1 2 3      1 2 3     >1 2 3
4 5 6 -->  4 5 6 --> >4 5 6 ->> >5 6
7 8 9     >7 8 9     >8 9       >9
           (7)        (4 8)     (1 5 9)
           
Second Set:

9 8 7      9 8 7      9 8 7     >9 8 7
6 5 4 -->  6 5 4 --> >6 5 4 ->> >5 4
3 2 1     >3 2 1     >2 1       >1
           (3)        (2 6)     (1 5 9) <- gets removed
```

Overall, I'm glad I had this experience now, I think I will definitely need a lot more grids in the future, and hopefully I will
have some more ideas on how to get these different sets from a grid.