## 10-30-2024 | Program Architecture

Program architecture is honestly one of the most interesting things I've been learning so far. One of the cool ways to do this in
clojure is with multimethods, but those are a topic for a different blog. There are essentially a few things you have to balance when writing
a program, development time, compilation time, and program efficiency. One of the ways I've been doing  this in my recent Tic Tac Toe project
is by extracting methods out into their own namespaces, and then using a core namespace to minimize the amount of bloat and references seen by different files.
It's gotten to the point where my "main" namespace only has the main function, which essentially calls a start game function from core that does
different things depending on the arguments I give it. `lein run :gui` starts the program with a GUI for example. This can be further expanded upon,
where you have entire different processes relying on the same few methods, even if those processes behave very differently. For example, in Tic Tac Toe,
I havea GUI, as well as a terminal based UI. The way those two programs function is very different, however, when you boil down the two to their core functionality,
it's a set of 4 functions. "Setup", "Draw", "Update", and a user input listener. The GUI has a library called quil which is simply passed these
4 methods and then it handles all of the work in the background, however when writing the terminal based game, I have been reworking it to rely
on these 4 functions. The refactoring process has been very straightforward, and it has allowed me to see how truly similar the two different
functionalities are. And now, if I ever want to add a different type of user interface, I essentially have a template to go off of, and I don't
have to change any code in my "core" or my "main" file. All of the code in this new User Interface will be self contained, which helps uphold
the SOLID principles, primarily the Open Close principle.